# Loading and Importing Data

To import new data into an experiment's directories you can call import_data() on any detector object. This requires a path to be given where the new data is located. This will invoke the preprocessing function specified in the *process_fn* argument during detector creation. By default this is the Q-GAIN preprocessing function, which is suitable for HDF files generated by the [Labscript Suite](https://labscriptsuite.org/en/latest/). It can be modified to support other HDF hierarchy configurations by modifying the appropriate argument.

```python
sd = qgain.soldet.soliton_detector.SolitonDetector()
sd.import_data(path='../BEC_data_2023_0613/0001', target='xy', atoms_name='atoms', bg_name='background', probe_name='probe', tag=9, width=164, height=132)
```

To load in preprocessed, imported data into any detector object you can use load_data(). This will load all files specified by the *tags* argument. This function can scale the data to be between 0 and 1 with the boolean *scale* argument, and the bounds can be controlled with the *minmax* argument. The amount of data to use for training the ML models can be specified with the argument *data_frac*.


```python
sd.load_data(tags=[0, 1], data_frac=0.9, minmax=[-1, 3])
```

# Using the SolDet Data

The SolDet subpackage can make use of the existing dataset the library was originally developed on. This can be downloaded with an optional helper function download_ds(). This will also create the necessary folder structure if it does not exist in your experiment path.


```python
from qgain.soldet import soliton_datasets

soliton_datasets.download_ds()
```

The original format of this dataset must be converted to work with the Q-GAIN library. Rather than importing it directly, the SolDet subpackage has another helper function to convert it into a Q-GAIN compatible dataset. This conversion can be used on any SolDet (downloaded or existing) dataset by making use of soldet_to_h5(). This expects a path that points to the root directory the data resides in.

```python
from qgain.soldet import soliton_datasets

soliton_datasets.soldet_to_h5(exp_path, delete_old = True)
```